---
layout: post
title: Publication of robust aircraft design paper in AIAA Journal
date: 05/04/2021
post_url: 2021-04-05-AIAARO
categories: [blog, research, phd]
---

Ali and I have recently published a paper titled 
**Optimal Aircraft Design Decisions Under Uncertainty Using Robust Signomial Programming**
in the AIAA Journal, tying up some work we had started more than 3 years ago!
It is available [here](https://arc.aiaa.org/doi/pdf/10.2514/1.J058724). 
You can replicate our results by using code in [robustSPpaper](https://github.com/1ozturkbe/robustSPpaper), or use
[convexengineering/robust](https://github.com/convexengineering/robust)
to apply robustness to your own geometric/signomial programs. Please let us know if you
are interested. 

Here is the abstract:

*Aircraft design benefits from optimization under uncertainty since design feasibility and performance can have
large sensitivities to uncertain parameters. Legacy methods of uncertainty protection do not adequately explain the
tradeoffs between feasibility and optimality, and they require prior engineering knowledge that may not be available
for new system concepts. Furthermore, stochastic optimization over parameter distributions is computationally
intractable for solving high-dimensional nonlinear design optimization problems. This paper proposes an efficient
solution method for engineering design optimization problems under uncertainty using robust signomial programs
(RSPs). Signomial programs (SPs) have demonstrated potential in solving multidisciplinary optimization problems,
and the formulation of RSPs enables conceptual design that captures parametric uncertainty with probabilistic
guarantees of constraint satisfaction. The proposed method transforms stochastic optimization problems to
deterministic problems by considering the worst-case robust counterpart of each design constraint over a
parameter uncertainty set, provided that each constraint is SP representable. The RSP formulation extends an
existing robust geometric program (RGP) formulation by allowing difference-of-log-convex constraints that appear
in many design problems. The RSP is solved efficiently and deterministically using a sequence of local RGP
approximations. RSPs are then applied to unmanned aircraft design, and they are used to rigorously explore the
tradeoff between robustness and optimality in design decisions.*


[back]({{site.url}}/blog)
